Essential:
==========

Avoid auto-updating slug on live pages
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1810

Add system check for presence of libjpeg / zlib 
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1718

Important:
==========

Fixes #1329. Set enctype as multipart if form.is_multipart returns true.
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1741

Cleanup in WagtailAPI module
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1772

Fix bug where built assets may not be packaged
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1785

Move wagtailsettings into contrib module
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1754

Nice to have:
=============

Remove useless empty page-editor.js from wagtailforms
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1809

Collections
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1751

Fix 'move page' permissions to enforce subpage_types / parent_page_types business rules
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/638
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1572

Tweaks to how root pages are rendered in explorer 
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1482

Allow limiting PageChooserBlock to specific page type.
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1531

Fixes #1298 (menu border glitch)
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1596

Initial idea for a table stream field block using handsontable.js.
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1705

Fixed StreamField hover jitter 
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1725

Allow custom Page Managers
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1729

Deprecate automatic `template` attribute, use `get_template`
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1730

Admin GUI fixes
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1746

[RFC] Added some basic signals docs
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1786

Added router class to WagtailAPI
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1789

Enable rest framework's browsable API
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1790

Issue #1638: The (admin) search bar only searches for pages
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1800

Allow block subclasses to pass extra context variables to templates
https://github.com/torchbox/wagtail/pull/1812
